hey if you're learning Japanese you may
have thought to look into writing the
language with a paintbrush Japanese and
Chinese both struggle with the fact that
historically the languages were not
written with pens they were not written
with knives or other metal implements
they were written with a paintbrush as
you can see this is what is called a
brush pen it simulates a real paintbrush
and the tip of it really is composed of
a whole bunch of tiny hairs tiny pieces
of plastic of course they're not not
made from animal's hair so that you will
get the effect to some extent of a
paintbrush unlike a real paintbrush the
ink is internal the edges of this are
squeezy it is a soft shell pen and so if
you don't have as much ink in the brush
as you like you actually squeeze the
body of the pen you squeeze the
cartridge and that forces more ink into
the tip into the paintbrush as it were
so I'm here doing the traditional
Chinese character for medicine the
Japanese version simplifies that puts
two of the two of the radicals are
reduced just two brushstrokes modern
Japanese
and as you see if you take some time
with it you can get some of the effects
that snobs hope for their handwriting
I'm not doing it terribly snobby job
here but I'm just showing you you can
get a contrast between thick and thin
brush strokes you can get this effect of
the the paint brush being lifted off the
page and giving you sort of a faded out
ending to your stroke and this sort of
thing however it's an imperfect
technology to say the least you are
constantly managing how much liquid is
in the paintbrush tip as I say by
squeezing it otherwise fussing over it
if you're actually writing out a page of
text at the size of normal characters
then well I mean just put it this way
you would never use this to take notes
in a classroom and you would definitely
not put it in your pocket and take it on
an airplane so you're limited to certain
kind of desktop use however this fine
fine tip if you're willing to pay close
attention if you are looking with your
eyes intently at the tip of the
paintbrush you can get a very fine line
not just a thick line it's not only
useful for poster sized handwriting just
giving two examples of common characters
here so these are both traditional
Chinese they're slightly different in
their simplified forms as used in modern
Japanese but I'm using the traditional
character CC sort of complex and fussy
character I have relatively big hands so
this is the size of normal text you
might take notes there are some coins
for scale so yes it is possible even
though this is a big contraction this is
a sort of big fussy looking pen you can
use a brush pen to get very fine lines
that way but again your whole focus is
not like writing with a ballpoint pen is
going to be watching the tip of the pen
move now the reality is so that that is
a brush pen also called an English a
full brush pen
what I think the majority of people use
the majority of the time definitely this
was true in Taiwan in Taiwan most of the
pens were buying were made in Japan is
this this is a sort of hybrid this is a
calligraphy pen that really is a marker
so the tip of that is just a solid piece
of felt with ink from an internal
cartridge and you do not get any of
these effects you get a slightly
specially shaped marker now you can take
that to the classroom you can carry that
in your pocket
the problem is really it's only good for
sort of poster size writing not for a
small fine handwriting and you don't get
the type of aesthetic effects that snobs
are looking for so this same company
that made the full brush kind of showed
you know there are many there are also
these hybrid pens so this is a brush pen
adapted so you can carry on your pocket
you now cannot squeeze this it's a hard
shell and when you take off the top
again if you look carefully you can see
this is um this does have fine brush it
sorry bristles
I suppose the word I'm looking for
alright this time we'll do the Japanese
versions of the character but actually I
can see the problem already here so I
can't control how much ink is really
flowing through this with a real
paintbrush needless to say you would
control the ink by actually placing it
on an ink stone or dipping it into an
inkwell or what have you playing fast
and loose with brush stroke order here
actually you can see right there this is
an inferior technology hmm does not work
as well this this example turned out
better than these and you can see I
can't actually control how much ink is
flowing through it but I guess you know
if what you want is to get the sort of
sketchy paintbrush effects you can do
that with either pen not not really a
useful aspect of the technology now
historically
Chinese and Japanese are perhaps
extraordinary in having these these
problems your piano calligraphy this is
the sort of thing that gets sold these
days this is a hi-tech calligraphy pen
with a solid steel tip this is called a
parallel pen because the tip is made of
two parallel pieces of steel it will
never wear down or or wear out very
difficult to use for Asian languages at
a small scale or with larger characters
the differences may be subtle but again
European calligraphy versus East Asian
calligraphy or just just handwriting
just being able to practice the language
take notes
it's amazing how worthless this sort of
thing is compared to even the sort of
mediocre hybrid approach dimensions more
like a marker the Japanese have a huge
variety of these things I'm showing you
now this is a sort of high-tech
supposedly hybrid pen for for
calligraphy to make a long story short I
don't recommend these they they really
don't work out these basically have a
ton of ink flowing through the tip so
you can get some calligraphy like
effects but you're basically stuck with
either using brush pen or struggling
along with a good quality ballpoint pen
and the Japanese do make I mean these
are for illustration this is the jelly
roll they do make ballpoint pens that
work well enough to write Japanese in a
classroom although the problem is with
all ballpoint pens frankly even
conventional Western fountain pens your
results will vary with the humidity
altitude altitude because of air
pressure and temperature of where you're
living
believe me I have experience with that
you could have the same pen perform very
differently in Cambodia and then get on
an airplane and go up to Yunnan and
China going from sea level in the
tropics to 2,000 meters above sea level
and in much colder climate and get very
different results trying to write Asian
languages
that's about it as mentioned I mean
Southeast Asian languages like Cambodian
Sinhalese lotion Burmese language of
Myanmar they were actually written using
a metal knife to scratch the character
into a palm leaf a leaf taken from a
tree was used as the medium of writing
other languages the history involves
writing on leather on a vellum on
parchment and so on but for languages
that developed with a paintbrush still
today for your own education really
you're probably gonna be looking at
struggling for some time your desk with
a paintbrush technologically there's
still no substitute for it